Updates API ref for jobs. Adds doc on Kubernetes Scheduler persistent (#4256)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/hosting/kubernetes/kubernetes-persisting-scheduler.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-to: Persist Scheduler Jobs"
linkTitle: "How-to: Persist Scheduler Jobs"
weight: 50000
description: "Configure Scheduler to persist its database to make it resilient to restarts"
---

> The [Scheduler]({{< ref scheduler.md >}}) service is responsible for writing Jobs to its embedded database and scheduling them for execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Scheduler]({{< ref scheduler.md >}}) service is responsible for writing jobs to its embedded database and scheduling them for execution.
```

> By default, the Scheduler service database writes this data to an in-memory ephemeral tempfs volume, meaning that this **data is not persisted across restarts**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Scheduler service database writes this data to an in-memory ephemeral tempfs volume, meaning that **this data is not persisted across restarts**. Job data will be lost during these events.
```

> **Job data will be lost during these events**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To make the Scheduler data resilient to restarts, a persistent volume must be mounted to the Scheduler StatefulSet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the Scheduler data resilient to restarts, a persistent volume must be mounted to the Scheduler `StatefulSet`.
```

This persistent volume is backed by a real disk that is provided by the hosted Cloud Provider or Kubernetes infrastructure platform.

> The size this disk should be is determined by how many jobs are expected to be persisted at once however, 64Gb should be more than sufficient for most use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disk size is determined by how many jobs are expected to be persisted at once; however, 64Gb should be more than sufficient for most use cases.
```

Some Kubernetes providers recommend using a [CSI driver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#csi) to provision the underlying disks.
Below are a list of useful links to the relevant documentation for creating a persistent disk for the major cloud providers:
- [Google Cloud Persistent Disk](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks)
- [Amazon EBS Volumes](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/storage/persistent-storage-for-kubernetes/)

> - [Azure AKS Storage Options](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/concepts-storage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Azure AKS Storage Options](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/concepts-storage)
```

- [Digital Ocean Block Storage](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/kubernetes/how-to/add-volumes/)

> - [VMWare vSphere Storage](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/vmware-vsphere-with-tanzu/GUID-A19F6480-40DC-4343-A5A9-A5D3BFC0742E.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [VMWare vSphere Storage](https://docs.vmware.com/VMware-vSphere/7.0/vmware-vsphere-with-tanzu/GUID-A19F6480-40DC-4343-A5A9-A5D3BFC0742E.html)
```

- [OpenShift Persistent Storage](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-aws-efs.html)

> - [Alibaba Cloud Disk Storage](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/ack/ack-managed-and-ack-dedicated/user-guide/create-a-pvc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Alibaba Cloud Disk Storage](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/ack/ack-managed-and-ack-dedicated/user-guide/create-a-pvc)
```

> Once the persistent volume class has been made available, Dapr can be installed with the following command with Scheduler configured to use the persistent volume class (replace `my-storage-class` with the name of the storage class):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the persistent volume class is available, you can install Dapr using the following command, with Scheduler configured to use the persistent volume class (replace `my-storage-class` with the name of the storage class):
```

> > If Dapr is already installed, the control plane will need to be completely [uninstalled]({{< ref dapr-uninstall.md >}}) in order for the Scheduler StatefulSet to be recreated with the new persistent volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
If Dapr is already installed, the control plane needs to be completely [uninstalled]({{< ref dapr-uninstall.md >}}) in order for the Scheduler `StatefulSet` to be recreated with the new persistent volume.
{{% /alert %}}
```

{{< tabs "Dapr CLI" "Helm" >}}
 <!-- Dapr CLI -->
{{% codetab %}}

```bash

>     dapr init -k --set dapr_scheduler.cluster.storageClassName=my-storage-class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dapr init -k --set dapr_scheduler.cluster.storageClassName=my-storage-class
```

```

{{% /codetab %}}

 <!-- Helm -->
{{% codetab %}}

```bash

>     helm upgrade --install dapr dapr/dapr \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm upgrade --install dapr dapr/dapr \
```

>     --version={{% dapr-latest-version short="true" %}} \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--version={{% dapr-latest-version short="true" %}} \
```

>     --namespace dapr-system \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--namespace dapr-system \
```

>     --create-namespace \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--create-namespace \
```

>     --set dapr_scheduler.cluster.storageClassName=my-storage-class \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--set dapr_scheduler.cluster.storageClassName=my-storage-class \
```

>     --wait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--wait
```
